[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I'm Dr. Theresa Bullard, and
this is "Mystery Teachings."
Where are we in the
process of humanity's
collective evolution?
Well, from an
alchemical perspective,
it appears that we
are at the precipice
of making a great shift.
And yet, things are rather
intense in the world today,
and it seems the divide
between opposite interests
grows starker every day.
In this episode, let's step back
from the drama of the details
and get a bird's eye view
of our world situation
at an alchemical level.
In any transformational
process, there's
a certain sequence
or flow to it.
We've explored this
sequence in other episodes
on the seven stages of alchemy.
Now, let's take a look
at how this applies
to our collective evolution
and what it reveals
as the way to move forward.
Where have we been
getting stuck?
And what do we need to do
to break through and create
a better world?
Human evolution has
been through many rounds
of the alchemical
process, but today we're
living in a truly
remarkable time.
We're more connected
than ever before.
Global economies, the
internet, social media
are transforming the way
we interact and relate
to each other on a global scale.
In our digital
age, we're exposed
to an unprecedented amount
of input and stimulus.
And all of this is leading to
rapid change within society.
Where's this shift taking us?
Can we trace the alchemical
process of humanity's evolution
to where we've come
from, where we are,
and where we might be going?
The beginning of
the new Millennium
marked an interesting
time in human evolution.
We entered fully
into the digital age
with an era of rapid advances
in technology, so much so
that the science
fiction of the '90s
has become the
science fact of today.
During this time, we've also
experienced an increasing trend
towards spiritual awakening
and conscious lifestyle
within the masses.
Yoga, meditation, tai chi,
and many ancient spiritual
practices have moved
from the fringes
into the mainstream culture.
We've seen a trend shift towards
more health conscious choices
and a push for more
sustainability.
At the core, this is a shift
towards greater awareness.
And yet, we're also at a point
in this alchemical cycle that
coincides with the
dark night of the soul.
This is because we're seeing
all the corruption, injustices,
and the ugliness that happens
when our societies are run
by fear, prejudice, and greed.
In short, we're having
to face our dark side
and overcome our attachments to
old paradigm ways of operating.
We could say that the
inner demons of humanity
are really in our
face right now.
We've launched into
collective conversations
about racism, inequality,
sexual imbalance.
Before these things, they were
happening behind the scenes
but they were covered up.
But now they're being
exposed and confronted.
Because it's now out in the
open, we as a collective
are having to address it.
But rather than judging
and pointing fingers
at the evil ones, we
want to truly move
through this dark night.
And to do so, we need to
take ownership and recognize
where any of this
exists within ourselves.
We need to conquer these
energies within before we can
really change it in the world.
How do we do that?
Well, this task
may seem daunting.
But when we take the
approach of an alchemist,
a new vision and
clarity emerges.
To illustrate this
journey, let's compare it
to the metamorphosis of
a caterpillar becoming
a butterfly.
In the beginning,
the caterpillar
lives most of its life
consuming and growing fat
off of the land, until one day
some kind of internal clock
goes off.
And as the caterpillar reaches
a certain level of maturity,
at this point its normal
function starts slowing down
and it becomes a struggle
to carry on as usual.
So the caterpillar finds
a nice little spot to rest
and spins itself a
comfy little cocoon.
And within this
cocoon, or chrysalis,
an alchemical process
starts to take place.
It begins with the old
structure of the caterpillar
breaking down and going
through a form of death.
This initial breakdown relates
to the calcination stage
of alchemy.
It's literally digesting itself.
As the caterpillar's cells
dissolve into a soupy mess,
it enters into the second
stage of disillusion.
Within our society, we
might compare the old form
of the caterpillar to the
structures and institutions
born out of the
Industrial Revolution.
These systems dominated our
way of perceiving and operating
for a long time.
But since the new
Millennium, these structures
are starting to
crumble, and we've
been shifting into
a new paradigm way.
We see this breakdown happening
within the worlds of finance,
government, business,
education, and
many other societal systems.
Things are really
in flux right now,
and visionaries of all
fields are literally
looking for the next
big, disruptive idea.
We want change to
happen, and there's
a lot of progress being
made behind the scenes.
But there's also those
who don't want change.
They want things
to stay the same
according to the old paradigm.
We can compare
people within society
to the cells of the caterpillar.
Some people think the old
structure worked just fine
and that it provided safety,
security, and control.
Everyone knew their
place and their duty.
These people tend to cling
to that old structure
and fight for its survival.
Other people feel
the system is flawed
and are ready to find a
better way of operating.
These are the innovators,
the visionaries,
and the change agents who
actively work for progress.
Then we have the people who fall
somewhere in the middle, who
tend to go with the status quo.
Most of the time,
the comfort zone
wins out because change requires
a lot of energy and discipline.
But when the comfort zone
gets ripped away from us,
like what happens in the
calcination stage of alchemy,
things stop feeling so safe and
the system becomes agitated.
As this breakdown happens
within the caterpillar,
the old cells act
like they're dying
and they go into survival mode.
At the same time that the old
structure starts breaking down,
a new type of cell
appears on the scene.
These new cells are
called imaginal cells,
and they start showing
up in greater numbers.
And since they're different
from the old cells,
they're perceived as a
threat to the system.
It's as if the old cells think
that the imaginal cells are
like a virus, and so they
attack and try to kill them off.
This is where the
cells enter into what
we call the separation stage
of the alchemical process.
The imaginal cells need to
separate out from the old cells
in order to survive.
Fortunately, the caterpillar's
DNA has shifted its expression,
and it's putting
out the instructions
to create more imaginal cells.
They're part of the
blueprint, as they
were from the beginning.
And as more and more
come onto the scene,
they start grouping together
and gain strength in numbers.
Now, at some point the imaginal
cells reach a critical mass.
They realize they
don't have to do
and be everything on their own.
They can start to
specialize and create
new forms and structures.
This structure is guided by
a clear vision within the DNA
blueprint, and soon the
form of the butterfly
starts taking shape.
This brings us to
the conjunction stage
of the alchemical process.
The imaginal cells unite
around this new common vision,
and the old caterpillar
cells, still clinging
to the old crumbling
system, start noticing
something new is happening.
They see that
whatever's going on
with those imaginal cells
seems to be working.
And then, some of
the caterpillar cells
start to jump ship and
join the new system
by repurposing themselves.
For example, a
digestive cell can still
function as a digestive cell.
An immunity cell can still
function as an immunity cell.
They just need to reorient
into the new system.
And as the caterpillar's
cells assume the tasks
that they were designed to
do within this new structure,
this frees up the
imagine all cells
to now specialize even further.
They start to form
the new elements that
are unique to the butterfly.
Now they start to develop the
wings, the antenna, and so
forth.
This harmonizing and
cooperation of opposing elements
is what the conjunction
stage is all about.
All of the essential elements
are identified and brought
together in harmony.
But we're not done yet.
If we were to stop the process
here and try to open up
the chrysalis to help
that butterfly out,
it would be too premature and
that butterfly would never
fly, let alone it
might not even survive.
So the metamorphosis must
continue until that butterfly
comes to full maturity.
What happens next is that the
old caterpillar cells that
fail to align within
the new structure
start to dissolve into
the alchemical soup
and eventually die off.
This alchemical
soup then becomes
what fuels the newly
emerging system until it
reaches a state of maturity.
This brings us to the
fermentation stage of alchemy.
It's both a maturing of the new
form and a death of the old.
To ferment something means to
allow it to mature to the point
where anything that is
corruptible rots away.
And in this stage, we're
forced to go deeper and address
some of the core structures
and impurities remaining
on more subtle levels.
Anything that's not aligned
with the purest essence must go.
This includes the remnants
of the old structure,
with its corruption
and limitations.
Now, as you can imagine,
it takes a lot more effort
to root out those
subtle impurities
and corrupt elements.
The secret to
moving this process
along is to introduce
a gentle heat.
For the butterfly, it's the
heat of the sun or an incubator
gently warming the chrysalis.
For us, it's fueled by the fires
of devotion and higher ideal
to that greater vision.
It takes discipline,
patience, and dedication
to make it through
this stage, though.
How do we know when the
fermentation stage is done?
Well, in the metamorphosis
of the butterfly,
this would be when the wing
structures in all their beauty
can be seen clearly
within the chrysalis.
The new structure is no
longer just a vision,
but now it has taken
on a physical form
within the alchemical soup.
It's the proverbial light
at the end of the tunnel.
From here on out, everything
that remains is essential
and the work moves on towards
refinement and elevation.
As everything aligns
around this new structure,
the butterfly is ready to
break out of the chrysalis.
But the process is
still not complete.
The struggle to break
free is a critical step.
Through this struggle,
the butterfly
strengthens its wings.
And again, if we were to
assist the butterfly out,
the wings wouldn't be strong
enough to take flight.
So we must allow it to struggle
and become strong on its own.
This stage of the
butterfly's metamorphosis
can be compared to
the alchemical stage
of distillation.
It's a stage of
re-ordering and refinement.
But in this stage, we're
no longer treating things
at just the physical level.
And that's because
to distill something
is to take whatever
emerges from the ferment
and then dissolve it
into an aqueous solution,
and then heat it
so that it rises up
into the air as a vapor.
The evaporated essence
rises to the subtle realms,
infusing consciousness
into the materia.
And then it re-condenses to
anchor those subtle energies
back into tangible form.
Distillation requires
several cycles,
infusing more and more spirit
essence into the physical.
Finally, having emerged
victoriously from the chrysalis
and solidified its new form,
the butterfly is ready to fly.
Like the phoenix
rising from the ashes,
the butterfly emerges
from that alchemical soup.
This is the final
stage of coagulation.
The butterfly has crystallized
into its final, perfected form,
and it now graces the
world with its beauty.
If we're going through our
own collective metamorphosis,
where are we in this process?
Are we able to trace our
collective evolution?
And once we recognize
where we are,
is there a way to
accelerate this process?
Through the study of
nature, alchemists
discovered that the evolutionary
and transformational process
is broken down into
these seven stages.
This is a natural
process that we all
go through, all the time.
But when left to nature
alone, it usually
takes a long time
for things to evolve.
What we learn from
the alchemists of old
is how to intentionally
work with nature
to harness consciousness
and speed up
the evolutionary process.
We've been through many
cycles throughout humanity's
evolution, but today
we're in the midst
of a transformational
cycle that started
at the turn of the
new Millennium.
And this cycle is
bringing us into position
to make a great leap
into a new paradigm.
Using these metaphors of
the butterfly and alchemy,
we can reorient ourselves with
this transformational process
and gain clarity about what's
needed to make the leap.
Let's explore a few
significant events
that have been part of our
current cycle of change.
Now as we do this,
let's remember
to keep our
alchemical lenses on.
We want to look at these
events from the perspective
of our collective
transformation,
rather than getting caught
up in the drama of politics
or conspiracy theories.
From the Western
world perspective,
we experienced a
couple big events
that acted as catalysts for
this calcination stage that
started our current cycle.
It started with the dot
com bubble burst in 1999.
And this was soon followed by
the deregulation of the banking
industry.
And then in 2001, the
world reeled from the shock
of the 9/11 tragedy.
This then instigated
the Patriot Act,
the Department of Homeland
Security, and the "war
on terror".
And while this may have
protected the USA's borders
from another terrorist
attack, it also
stripped American citizens
of many rights and privacy.
Wars in the Middle East
led to then more deaths
and skyrocketing national debts.
Then, intense emotions were
stirred from the breakdown,
and this moved us into
the disillusion stage.
People started to
protest, but their voices
were drowned out by mainstream
media and political rhetoric.
The system continued to
dissolve as the credit bubble
burst and the banks
themselves faced bankruptcy.
The people began to
realize far reaching
corruption and the breakdown
of the old structures.
The structures that were
meant to be our foundation
were not supporting the whole,
and people either rose up
or sunk into dismay
and depression.
Disillusion tends to be
an introspective stage.
It's an opportunity
to reflect on what
is at the root of the issue.
It's one thing to be
angry, and another thing
to look at what's the cause.
And at this point,
people started
to look at the cause
and effect and seek out
actions to reorient
us in a new direction.
Eventually, we saw the rise
of social media platforms,
with Facebook coming onto the
scene in 2004, YouTube in 2005,
and Twitter in 2006.
And things started to
shift as people started
using these platforms as a tool
to self-organize and express
their voice.
Now, as the social media
revolution gained momentum,
fueled primarily by millennials,
self-organizing increased
and we transitioned into
the separation stage.
Soon, various groups
of similar agendas
started banding together and
found strength in numbers.
We saw the rise
of many movements,
from Occupy Wall
Street to the Tea Party
and libertarian efforts.
And then later came the
alternative energy initiatives,
Black Lives Matter,
the Time's Up movement,
and the list goes on and on.
Documentaries have
also abounded,
revealing our flawed
systems from politics,
to the food industry, to
medicine and big pharma, and so
much more.
As things started to
settle down and stabilize
after the Great Recession, we
moved into a conjunction phase.
This is the halfway
point where we
bring the separated
parts back together,
but in a more synergistic way.
In this stage, we
may start to have
a sense of the new
vision emerging,
but it takes focused
effort and dedication
to push through these
final three stages.
If we stop here,
we fail to produce
sustainable, lasting change.
And we'll backslide and have to
start from the beginning again.
Moving forward requires a
strong sense of devotion
to the mission of
creating a better world.
Then 2016 came along and
was a major disruptor year.
Much like the Tower card
of the major Arcana,
it was carried by a fervor that
swept much of Western society,
from the US presidential
election, to the Brexit,
and many other
world leaders being
ousted as the masses rallied
for change one way or another.
And to top it off, we mourned
an unprecedented number
of deaths of some of our
favorite modern stars,
musicians, and heroes.
And as a result of
all of this, we've
come face to face with the
shadow side of humanity.
And it's now out in the open,
no longer hiding in the shadows,
forcing us to deal with it.
Like it or not, 2016 onwards
has brought so many things
to the surface that it's
catapulted us forward
into the fermentation stage.
The fermentation stage relates
to that final death of the old
as the new paradigm
forms are pushed forward
into a maturing process.
The current unrest will not
just go away on its own.
It's fueled by an inner
fire, a need for change.
We're experiencing now a
deeply rooted inner struggle
within the collective
of humanity.
We've entered into a dark
night of the soul period.
In this struggle,
we must face and let
go of our core
judgments, attachments,
and outdated values that are not
aligning with the new paradigm
energies.
How do we successfully move
through this fermentation
phase?
And is there
anything that we can
do to accelerate this process?
There is no doubt that we're
on the verge of a great shift.
With AI and 3D printing,
automated vehicles
and sustainable
energy solutions,
we're experiencing
amazing innovations
at a faster rate
than ever before.
There's massive potential
to move into a new paradigm
way of operating and
to solve the biggest
problems of our world.
All of these things are
starting to come into focus,
and yet we still see
the old caterpillar
cells fighting the process.
We need to integrate the core
values of the new paradigm
and work out the kinks.
As we do this, we can
find a proper flow
within an integrated
system, rather
than establishing a
little piece of it here
and a little piece of it there.
To make it through
this shift, it's
our consciousness that
needs to break free
from outmoded programs.
This is what will take us
from the fermentation stage
through the final
steps of the process.
The task before us is to
integrate the new paradigm
techniques in a way that's
aligned with a higher level
of consciousness and wisdom.
To move through this stage
requires soul searching.
We have to turn inwards and let
go of the outer distractions
and anything that keeps us
caught up in the matrix.
It's time to get in touch with
our inner soul and spirit.
This is how we can
access the blueprint
for this new paradigm,
because it's in us.
It's time for a deep
dive into our inner self
and to seek out that
spiritual awakening.
Only when enough of us
do this individually can
we then start to
do it collectively.
If it's up to us as
individuals, where do we start?
First off, we have to
recognize where we're
at in our personal journey.
The alchemical
process gives us a map
to see where we are and shows us
what it takes to move forward.
It's very easy to get caught up
in media, and politics, and all
the fear and judgment that goes
back and forth in our world
today.
We're living in what feels like
one of the most highly charged
and polarized times.
But alchemy works through
the tension of differences,
so there's a huge
opportunity here as well.
We have the
possibility to harness
this time of high energy
and direct it in a good way.
So how do we do that?
Well, if we return to that
metaphor of the butterfly,
the imaginal cells
are the driving force
behind this transformation.
They hold a clear vision to
guide the collective shift.
So who are the imaginal
cells of today?
And what new paradigm values
do they innately align with?
There are two primary
groups driving this shift
into the new paradigm.
The first are the millennials,
or the net generation,
those who grew up
in the digital age
and are ready for
that new paradigm.
The millennials value
creativity and innovation,
and they tend to have
a degree of skepticism
about the mainstream propaganda.
They tend to do
their own research
and decide for themselves what
they think is really happening.
Growing up digital, their
brains operate in a new way,
and they have high
expectations for a faster pace
and interconnected reality.
Millennials are breaking
out of the old structure
and pursuing technology-driven
creative solutions
to the problems of the world.
The second group
of imaginal cells
are identified as the
cultural creatives.
Cultural creatives
aren't defined
by any particular
demographic, but instead they
share a common set of values.
These values tend towards
greater sustainability,
acceptance of diversity,
and greater transparency.
They embrace ideas like
conscious consumerism, greater
cooperation, and altruism.
The old paradigm, based
on separation, fear,
and nationalism, is dying.
We see a lot of it
right now, but that's
because it's in its
final death throes.
The way forward is toward
unity, not more separation.
We are a collective,
meaning we are all one.
It's time for us to
remember and embrace that.
The cultural creatives
carry these values,
and just like the imaginal
cells of the butterfly
win out in the end, so
too will these values
of the new paradigm.
The good news is
that we have a role
to play in this metamorphosis.
And through our
collective effort,
we can accelerate the shift.
The famous principle of
correspondence that states,
"as above, so below,
as below, so above".
This can also be taken to
mean, as within, so without.
What this is saying is that
the world reflects our thought
forms.
And if we wish to
change the world,
we must first change
our inner landscape
of emotions and thoughts.
We must slay our
own inner demons
and not allow ourselves
to be distracted
by outer circumstances.
The battle can only
be won on the inside.
And from there, we can
reflect to the outer.
So how do we come through
this victoriously?
Well, in the
alchemical process we
have four keys that
can help us to move
through the fermentation
stage and to rise
from the ashes like the phoenix.
Number one is to move beyond
the emotional attachments,
opinions, and negative emotions.
Number two, be honest with
ourselves and each other.
Number three, be willing to
sacrifice the ego in order
to attain a higher
purpose and glory.
And number four, connect to
the universal spiritual source
to guide, fuel, and refine
our ongoing transformation.
Accomplishing these
four steps requires
us to face our own darkness and
do some soul searching to get
clear about our core values.
The first step is to move
beyond the emotional energy.
This includes the
reactive emotions
that drove us to speak
out against the corruption
in the first place.
It's so important that we
let go of our anger, sadness,
and dissatisfaction
with the system.
Why is this such
a necessary step?
Well, when we refuse to let go
of these emotional attachments,
we get stuck in pointing the
finger and blaming others.
And we don't take responsibility
for our own actions.
These emotions, they're
a natural response
to the calcification phase.
But if we hold on to
them, they drive us
into this emotional drama
that just keeps us stuck.
It's easy to get addicted to the
drama and stop moving forward.
So how do we let go?
The disillusion stage is meant
to give us an opportunity
to discharge this
emotional build-up,
to feel, express, and let
go of that emotional energy.
And what follows is a
greater sense of clarity.
You can think of
the "e" in emotion
as standing forward Energy.
Emotions are energy that
need to be in motion.
In other words, emotions need
to be actively moved through,
expressed, and grounded in order
to be released and dissipated.
Once we move beyond
the emotional energy,
key number to challenges
us to face the truth
and be honest with
ourselves and each other.
Usually this also
involves key number three,
which is letting go of
our pride, righteousness,
and self-centered point of view.
Only then will we be
able to acknowledge
our own shortcomings
and accept and open up
to the possibility of
other perspectives.
This is how we start to realize
creative solutions that get us
out of the mess we've created.
Telling ourselves
the truth means
recognizing the places where
we've been part of the problem.
Since ancient times,
philosophers and sages
have taught that
the world outside
is simply a reflection of what's
happening within each of us.
It's up to us to do the
work to purify ourselves
so that we can then make
the change on the outside.
It's not just about
what's happening out there
and what those people
are doing wrong.
It's about what's
happening in us.
The alchemist and
their experiments
are not viewed as
separate, but are
seen as intimately
connected or entangled.
Any change that the alchemist
wants to see in their subject,
such as the world outside, they
must first realize that change
within themselves.
Only then can they create
that change in the world.
If we want to create
a golden society,
we must first attain the gold
within our own hearts, minds,
and souls.
The inner gold is the
attainment of wisdom
and the awakening of
our full potential.
This brings us to
the fourth key,
connecting to the
universal spiritual source
to guide, fuel, and refine
our ongoing transformation.
This divine source is the
secret fire of alchemists,
and it can only be
cultivated within oneself
through spiritual devotion.
True alchemical
work starts within,
and from there it moves
out into the world.
The bottom line is that we need
more people doing the work,
getting initiated, and
committing to their journey.
If we're going to make this
shift on a larger scale,
about 3% of the
population is needed
to create that
major tipping point.
This is our critical
mass level needed
for a spontaneous evolution
and the up-leveling
of human consciousness.
3% of the population
may seem daunting.
The good news is that
we don't need to reach
that many people to begin with.
We just need to reach
the right people who
can be the ones
to tip the scales
that lead towards the
snowballing effect to take us
to the tipping point.
In Malcolm Gladwell's
book, "The Tipping Point",
he talks about three
types of people
that are at the core
of any social movement.
These are the types of people
that we need to find and bring
toward this level of awareness.
So if you might be one
of those, or if you
know of anyone who fits
these characteristics,
then introduce them to these
teachings and concepts.
These people are different
types of influencers
who can help us reach
the tipping point faster.
Maybe some of you watching
it fit these categories
or you know who do.
Who are they?
Well, the first group
he calls the connectors.
Connectors are naturally social
and they love to meet people.
They're incredibly
charismatic, and good all kinds
of social interactions,
and they enjoy
the process of randomly
getting to know people
and then will maintain
those connections.
Connectors also love helping
you connect to the right people
in their inner circle.
Now the second group
he terms as the mavens.
Mavens are social, but they're
more information oriented.
They seek out knowledge
in a variety of topics
and will learn the ins, and
outs, and all the details.
They're the ones who dive
in to do the research
and find out where
to go, what to buy,
and where you're really
going to get your best value.
They love to do this research
and then make recommendations
for other people.
And you can trust them because
you know that they've really
done their homework.
Mavens love connecting
you to the right resources
or information that you
need to make wise decisions.
The third group are
called persuaders.
This group is really
good at sales, but not
from a place of
agenda or pushiness.
They truly want to serve
people, and they really
like to help people find
solutions to their problems.
They may represent a
certain product or service,
and this is something that
they usually truly believe in.
And then they're really
good at persuading
and helping people make the
right decision to invest.
Now, Gladwell talks about all
of this from the perspective
of marketing and business.
But we can take
these same principles
and apply it towards
generating a shift
in collective consciousness.
These social drivers
can help move us forward
through our process
of social alchemy.
We need to find the
right people who
are going to be
instrumental in pushing us
toward that critical mass.
Those few aren't going
to be the critical mass,
but they'll help us generate
momentum towards it.
Once we reach the
critical mass level,
we reach the tipping point
for a spontaneous awakening
within the collective
of humanity.
One thing we can do is to
identify the right people
to talk to who can then be
those connectors, influencers,
and persuaders.
And as they get turned on, that
brings the right people forward
to help us reach
that tipping point.
Now regardless of who
you know or who you are,
we all still have a role
to play in this process.
And if you're a
Gaia subscriber, you
can count yourself among the
imaginal cells of humanity.
What we need to get clear
about is, what is our piece?
As an imaginal
cell, are you here
to be an antenna to
help us navigate?
Are you here to be part of
the wing to help us fly?
Are you a color to bring
beauty and artistry?
What's your role within
the structure of the whole?
Every cell has a part
to play, and we have
to get clear what it is for us.
This is something
that's innate within us.
It's something that
we were born to do.
We need to get clear
on who we really are
and be willing to do the work
it takes to fulfill that role.
But it also takes
coordination with other cells
who work with a similar
part of the structure.
We meet others who are on
a similar mission, and bond
together, and create
something bigger than what
we can create our own.
And we find that group synergy.
Then our task is to become
the best that we can be.
Start shedding our
old skin and letting
go of the old paradigm
ways in our own life.
As we go through our own
personal transformation,
the outer shift can happen.
We want to be ready
so that we can
be an active part of the shift.
Imagine that humanity
is right now standing
at the precipice
of a great abyss,
and we're in the final
face-off with our dark side.
We're searching for a way
across into the new paradigm.
The most critical element
is that we pass through
without giving up or
being dragged down
into this bottomless
pit of fear, separation,
and negativity.
How do we navigate
crossing this abyss?
Well, we've learned
from neuroscience
that our thoughts and
feeling directly impact
the creation of our reality.
It's up to us to choose
hope and to align
with positive perspectives
to keep moving forward,
no matter how bad and
dark it might seem.
As the saying goes,
"the darkest hour
comes just before the dawn".
It's interesting that this
dark night of the soul
is something that we're
experiencing collectively,
but it also manifests itself
in our individual lives.
There's a lot of
anger, and fear,
and wanting to just check out or
give up happening in the world.
But there's also this
other part of us that says,
no I will never give up.
I will continue forward
no matter what it takes.
So call upon your
inner warrior of light
and your inner servant of light,
and let's keep moving forward
across this abyss.
Join me again as we
explore ways to move
through the dark
night of the soul
and break through to
a more joyful life.
I'm Dr. Theresa Bullard.
Thank you for exploring the
mysteries of social alchemy
with me in this episode
of "Mystery Teachings."